# Code for "Heterogeneous estimations of non-pharmaceutical mitigation behavior during the COVID-19 pandemic"

This code reproduces the data for the paper "Heterogeneous estimations of non-pharmaceutical mitigation behavior during the COVID-19 pandemic" by Butts, Parikh, and Del Valle

## Usage

Data can be generated by:
1. unzipping data.zip
2. running cleaning\_census\_data.py,
3. running cleaning\_covid\_states.py
4. running imputing\_ctis.py
5. running run\_IPF.py
6. running convert\_to\_csv.py

The data for this paper can be accessed from its [Zenodo archive](https://zenodo.org/records/15177217?preview=1&token=eyJhbGciOiJIUzUxMiJ9.eyJpZCI6ImYwMmU5MjU5LTkyN2ItNDdjZS1iZmM5LTM1N2EwNGExMDMyNiIsImRhdGEiOnt9LCJyYW5kb20iOiJhZWZhZTE1ZmFiNDA5ODg4NDgyMDk5NTRkMWZmMGM2YiJ9.7E_LW7wNyb9o4BZva9U0hfX057Iwd2m_T3pYfiaV-Hqb-xhwuy5bv3-o_01wHWxFCrkmdUPBnXKlnoSk8AwEJg).

## Reference

Coming soon...

# Contributors

This work was developed by David Butts, Nidhi Parikh, and Sara Del Valle. The commit history for this repository does not reflect the degree of contributions from each author.

# Release

This software has been approved for open source release and has been assigned O4913.

# Copyright

© 2025. Triad National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.

This program was produced under U.S. Government contract 89233218CNA000001 for Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL), which is operated by Triad National Security, LLC for the U.S. Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration. All rights in the program are reserved by Triad National Security, LLC, and the U.S. Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration. The Government is granted for itself and others acting on its behalf a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable worldwide license in this material to reproduce, prepare. derivative works, distribute copies to the public, perform publicly and display publicly, and to permit others to do so.

# License

This program is Open-Source under the BSD-3 License.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
